So something that we need to do is to
use that service worker to cache and
serve the resources of our PWA.
So the service worker has a local cache.
In fact to be technically accurate,
the cache is also available
outside of the service worker.
It's called the cache storage API.
With that storage, we can save all
the resources that we need or just a few.
We decide.
Everything is heavily based
in JavaScript promises.
So please have in mind that we're
going to see a lot of async/await or
a lot of them when we are using this API.
Most of the common scenarios include
the ability to prefetch on installation.
That means,
when you install a service worker,
what will happen is that
you're going to prefetch so
you're going to download assets
that you will need later.
Also you can do cache on request.
So instead of pre caching,
you can cache a request.
So when you are actually getting into a
section of the PWA, and you're downloading
for the first time, the assets,
you cache those assets at that point.
So this is a big advantage over
a classic native app development.
Because that means that you decide
here the algorithm that you
wanna use in terms of the resources,
HTML, CSS, JavaScript,
JSON, videos,
anything that you need for your PWA.
Most of the time we follow
an app shell pattern.
That means that we download
at least all the files that
are necessary to render the app shell.
So the app shell is everything that
you see in the user interface.
Maybe there is a section that is not
actually downloaded, but at least
we have the basics to actually render an
error message in case that's what we want.
After we cache the resources,
we need to serve them,
because remember,
we are going to be a server.
So in this case,
the service worker will respond for
every request that the PWA make.
It can make a decision
serve from the cache,
forward the request to the network where
you can even synthesize a response.
That means create a response on
the fly as if we were Apache with PHP,
okay if you want.
So but in this case is JavaScript and
it's executed client side.
Any mixed algorithm is possible here.
So you are in charge and
that's an advantage but
also responsibilities that we
have that we didn't have before.
So a warning here, the serviceWorker
API it's a low level API.
So that means that we have a lot of power,
but
also we need to put out of work for
some basic behavior.
So the question is that, can we have
a PWA that doesn't actually need a real
server because the service worker can
actually answer for all those requests?
So in theory, yes.
The problem is who is serving
the service worker the first time.
So you actually need a server
to serve the service worker and
the HTML that register the service worker.
And then probably the service worker will
need someplace to download the resources
the first time.
But after everything was registered and
installed,
then in theory, you could potentially
shut down your real server.
However, that's the theory.
In practice, because the ServiceWorker
is a middleware, you should
always think that something will happen
that will probably remove the data.
It can be the user going to settings and
deleting everything.
It can be the user buying a new device,
you go and buy a new device, a new laptop,
a new phone.
Yeah, maybe you're you have the icon again
because you are recovering your backup but
you don't have the assets.
So that's why we are not going
to stop using the server.
So the server is always there.
We are using the service worker as
a middleware to help performance and
offline abilities.